---
layout: post 
title: "My case for Open Source Software"
description: ""
category: thoughts
tags: [Ubuntu, Fedora, GNU/Linux, Calibre, vim, kindle, libreoffice, git]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
When I started out at Hacker School, I made a conscious decision to boot Linux
operating systems throughout the duration of my stay. The only times when I've
strayed from this commitment have been when Netflix needs watching, an
occurrence that has become increasingly rare after discovering [Hacker News](h
ttp://news.ycombinator.com). At the time, the operating system had been 
installed on my computer for little over a year, and when I seldom booted into
it out of curiosity, I would end my visit as soon as I needed to fetch a file 
from my Windows documents. 

But two months ago, I had a clean slate; and I kept my commitment. Today, I'm 
glad I made that choice. Consistently booting GNU/Linux introduced me to a good
many tools and software. My blog is generated by Jekyll, which itself runs on
Ruby. As I write this, my operating system is Fedora 17 \(i686\) -- though I
also have Ubuntu and Windows 7 installed. My editor of choice is currently vim.
Today I spent about two hours fine-tuning Calibre, then proceeded to make a
backup of my Kindle. My browser of choice is currently Firefox \(although I wish
you could run Private and regular instances concurrently\). The list of software
goes on, exceedingly so. With the exception of Windows 7 and the Kindle,
everything is free open source software.

I first discovered Calibre when I started booting Ubuntu consistently, and after
the pleasant experience today, I can't believe Amazon doesn't at least promote
it. I have the Kindle 2, with physical keyboard and e-ink display. With it, I
created Collections in order to keep track of the books I've already read.
Frankly, it's a painful process, and when my previous Kindle's screen went awry
I was mortified that I lost out on all the quotes that I had saved. Calibre is
the ideal e-book manager. It's extension agnostic \(.mobi, .epub, .pdf it
handles them all _very_ well\), it converts between filetypes, and it
supports some advanced features even if the majority of what you need is
already built in \(I created an additional column for my books called "Read".
I could set the column to pre-defined text such as Yes/No,
Read/Reading/Untouched, free-text, or a range of other choices. I decided that
a yyyy MM dd date was what I wanted\). The UI is crisp, and minimalistic.

I've "broken" my GNU/Linux installs on two separate occasions, and both times 
everything needed to fix them was already installed \(even if I didn't know
how to properly use it yet\). If I need software for a particular task, most 
likely a version of it is freely available on the repositories, and I don't
need to go out and fish out dependencies for libraries. But my biggest
pleasure has been the ability to multi-boot and retain my files. I'm out to try
a good number of GNU/Linux distros, but losing files kept me from committing
to another change. I mentioned this in passing to my go-to Linux expert, and he
explained how I could move my `/home` directory into its own partition, which 
could then be mounted on boot and any and all files then become available 
across _operating systems_. It was such a mind blowing thing that I had issues
coming to terms with it. I couldn't be happier when I first did it successfully
and opened Firefox, and Firefox offered to open my previously open tabs, which
were from my previous boot on the other operating system!

So far, most of that is the usability aspect, which is great, but isn't always
so and isn't the final word of operating systems. So I'd like to comment on the
editor, vim. Some months ago I worked on a web site on PHP, and not knowing a
lick of PHP I appreciated Netbeans, particularly when my codebase got in the
range of a few hundred files. While IDEs are nice, the barebones approach in
__vim__ greatly aids my memorization \(though I do not have search auto-complete
and end up having to memorize the entire file structure, folders and all, of the
project at hand, which is not as nice. I concede that attempting to complete the
aforementioned web site with this setback would have been insane\).

That's nice and all, but I still haven't gotten to my favorite parts of my
switch. When I boot into Windows, my machine is constantly using over 1GB of
RAM with nothing open, even though I've manually disabled the majority of
startup items. Fedora, with over 15 internet tabs open, multiple terminal
instances and Konversation \(IRC client\) open, is using less than 800MB.
_The full extent of my use runs on less RAM on GNU/Linux than does cold boot
Windows 7 by itself._ Uninstalling programs from command line has so far proven
to be clean, and GNU/Linux doesn't add libraries to the list of programs
installed that makes the 'Add/Remove Programs' interface in Windows become
unwieldy after prolonged usage. [Defragmentation? What's that?](http://www.how
togeek.com/115229/htg-explains-why-linux-doesnt-need-defragmenting/). My
personal favorite, Workspaces. How I ever lived without them is a mystery.
When I go back to Windows I'm instantly annoyed that I can't open a program
on a separate visual screen while my browser starts from cold, and sometimes
immediately jump right back.

So if you're on the edge about taking the GNU/Linux plunge, I can assure you, 
you won't be sorry.
